docs:Add vibe coding recap (#1902)
block/goose: documentation/blog/2025-03-28-vibe-coding-with-goose/index.md

---

> title: "Vibe Coding with Goose: Speak Your Code into Existence"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Vibe Coding with Goose and the Speech MCP"
```

> description: "Explore the new Speech MCP server for Goose that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI agent"
```

authors: 
    - adewale
---

![blog cover](vibe-coding.png)

> Vibe coding is a term that is increasingly gaining ground in spaces all around us. It is a development technique that allows people create applications by describing the problem in a few sentences as a prompt to an AI agent. While this can be done by only typing, it is even more powerful when you can use your voice to express your ideas. This is where the new Speech MCP server for Goose comes in.

Reviewer: added some excitement lol

<!--truncate-->

> In a recent [Wild Goose Case livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zey9GHyXlHY&ab_channel=BlockOpenSource), hosts [Ebony Louis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ebonylouis/) and [Adewale Abati](https://www.linkedin.com/in/acekyd/) were joined by [Max Novich](https://www.linkedin.com/in/maksym-stepanenko-26404867) from Block's AI tools team, who demonstrated an exciting new extension for Goose - the [Speech MCP server](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a recent [Wild Goose Case livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zey9GHyXlHY&ab_channel=BlockOpenSource), hosts [Ebony Louis](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ebonylouis/) and [Adewale Abati](https://www.linkedin.com/in/acekyd/) were joined by [Max Novich](https://www.linkedin.com/in/maksym-stepanenko-26404867) from Block's AI tools team, who demonstrated an exciting new extension - the [Speech MCP server](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp). 
```

Reviewer: please dont ever refer to an MCP server being "for Goose". We are promoting an open ecosystem and do not want to frame Goose as being anything that locks you in

> During the livestream, Max demonstrated this by creating an entire web application using only voice commands - no keyboard or mouse required. The result? A vibrant, animated webpage with 3D effects, synthwave aesthetics, and interactive elements, all created through natural conversation with Goose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the livestream, Max demonstrated this by creating an entire web application using only voice commands - no keyboard or mouse required. This resulted in a vibrant, animated webpage with 3D effects, synthwave aesthetics, and interactive elements, all created through natural conversation with Goose.
```

<iframe class="aspect-ratio" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Zey9GHyXlHY?start=437&end=752" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## The Speech MCP Server

> The [Speech MCP server](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp) is an open-source MCP server that enables voice interaction with AI agents like Goose. What makes it special is that it runs entirely locally on your machine, making it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Speech MCP](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp) is an open source MCP server that enables voice interaction with AI agents like Goose. What makes it special is that it runs entirely locally on your machine, making it:
```

> - Provider-agnostic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- LLM agnostic
```

- Privacy-focused
- Cost-effective compared to cloud-based alternatives
- Accessible without internet connectivity

### Key Features

1. **Local Speech Processing**: Uses two main models:

>    - Faster Whisper: A more efficient version of OpenAI's Whisper for speech-to-text (8x faster, less memory intensive)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Faster Whisper: An efficient method to convert speech to text
```

Reviewer: do not compare to other vendors/tools

To try the Speech MCP server yourself:

1. Install the required audio library (PortAudio):
   ```bash
   # For macOS
   brew install portaudio
   
   # For Linux
   apt-get install portaudio  # or dnf install portaudio
   ```

2. Install the extension directly using the one-click [deep link install](goose://extension?cmd=uvx&&arg=-p&arg=3.10.14&arg=speech-mcp@latest&id=speech_mcp&name=Speech%20Interface&description=Voice%20interaction%20with%20audio%20visualization%20for%20Goose) in Goose

## Join the Development

The Speech MCP server is [open-source](https://github.com/Kvadratni/speech-mcp) and welcomes contributions. You can also connect with Max on [Discord](https://discord.gg/block-opensource) for questions and collaboration.

Voice interactions with AI agents like Goose with the power and tools to act on instructions provides a different kind of vibe that makes the future feel closer than ever. Whether you're interested in vibe coding, accessibility improvements, or just want to feel a bit more like Tony Stark while getting Goose to pull a J.A.R.V.I.S, the Speech MCP server offers a glimpse into the future of human-AI collaboration - and it's available today.

<head>

>   <meta property="og:title" content="Vibe Coding with Goose: Speak Your Code into Existence" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta property="og:title" content="Vibe Coding with Goose and the Speech MCP" />
```

  <meta property="og:type" content="article" />
  <meta property="og:url" content="https://block.github.io/goose/blog/2025/03/28/vibe-coding-with-goose" />

>   <meta property="og:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta property="og:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI agent." />
```

>   <meta property="og:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server for Goose that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta property="og:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant." />
```

  <meta property="og:image" content="http://block.github.io/goose/assets/images/vibe-coding-74eafa34e7ae10cfb738feddecc98519.png" />
  <meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
  <meta property="twitter:domain" content="block.github.io/goose" />

>   <meta name="twitter:title" content="Vibe Coding with Goose: Speak Your Code into Existence" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta name="twitter:title" content="Vibe Coding with Goose and the Speech MCP" />
```

>   <meta name="twitter:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta name="twitter:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI agent." />
```

>   <meta name="twitter:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server for Goose that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant." />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <meta name="twitter:description" content="Explore the new Speech MCP server that enables voice-controlled coding and natural conversation with your AI assistant." />
```
